OSDOCS-7061: Documented the AWS Wavelength zone feature (#69537)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/post-install-extend-existing-to-zone-type.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/aws-compute-edge-zone-tasks.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="post-install-existing-local-zone-subnet_{context}"]

> = Create network requirements in an existing VPC to use an AWS edge zone

Reviewer: afaik "AWS edge zone" is not official, this is a term added by us to reference OCP deployment in LZ and/or WL
```suggestion
= Create network requirements in an existing VPC to use an AWS Wavelength or Local Zones
```

Author: Updated.

> = Create network requirements in an existing VPC to use an AWS edge zone

Author: Yes. The "existing VPC" is important here.

> = Create network requirements in an existing VPC to use an AWS edge zone

Author: Further down in the assembly we have a section named "Creating subnets in edge zones"

> = Create network requirements in an existing VPC to use an AWS edge zone

Author: Edge zones will need to be changed to LZ and WZ here as AWS Outposts and AZ are out of scope.

> If you want a Machine API to create an Amazon EC2 instance in a remote zone location, you must create a subnet in a {zone-type} location. You can use any provisioning tool, such as Ansible or Terraform, to create subnets in the existing Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).

Author: Hi @mtulio . Would changing the text to the suggestion work for you?

> If you want a Machine API to create an Amazon EC2 instance in a remote zone location, you must create a subnet in a {zone-type} location. You can use any provisioning tool, such as Ansible or Terraform, to create subnets in the existing Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).

Reviewer: > an additional public and private subnet

I am fine with the new text, but limiting the description of resources creation to subnet only may let the final solution open. For example, "should I need to add only additional permissions to create subnets to the operators running that step?", which isn't true, as we are also creating subnet, carrier gateway and route tables (WL only).

> If you want a Machine API to create an Amazon EC2 instance in a remote zone location, you must create a subnet in a {zone-type} location. You can use any provisioning tool, such as Ansible or Terraform, to create subnets in the existing Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).

Author: Thanks. Keeping the original sentence as I do not want to swap text and then add more to compensate for the new text when the original is clearer.

You can configure the CloudFormation template to meet your requirements. The following subsections include steps that use CloudFormation templates to create the network requirements that extend an existing VPC to use an AWS {zone-type}. For AWS {zone-type}, consider the limitation of NAT Gateways in that CloudFormation templates supports associating private subnets with private route tables in the Region.

> 

Author: Hi @mtulio . Would you be OK to chime in here?

> 

Reviewer: NAT Gateways is not **generally available** across LZ[1] and WL, requiring the private subnets to use the route table in the Region.
A few LZ locations supports Nat Gateways[1], but the provided CloudFormation template for subet will not cover this.

> consider the limitation of NAT Gateways in that CloudFormation templates supports associating private subnets with private route tables in the Region.

^ this is also not clear to me.

> 

Author: Removed the confusing sentence. Thanks.

The following subsections include steps that use CloudFormation templates to create the network requirements that extend an existing VPC to use an AWS {zone-type}.

> For AWS Local Zones, consider the limitation of NAT Gateways in that CloudFormation templates support only public subnets. You can reuse the template to create public subnets for each edge location to where you need to extend your cluster.

Reviewer: There is no more limitation of public subnet, the new template for subnet cover both private and public.

```suggestion
For AWS Local Zones and Wavelength Zones, consider the limitation of NAT Gateways in that CloudFormation templates supports only associating private subnets with private route tables in the region.

For Local Zones, on completing these steps in the following subsections, you create the following resources:

* 2 VPC Subnets: public and private. The public subnet is associated to the public route table for the regular Availability Zones in the region. The private subnet is associated to the provided route table ID.

```

Author: Updated. Should "region" be "Region"?

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * post_installation_configuration/aws-compute-edge-zone-tasks.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="post-install-existing-local-zone-subnet_{context}"]

> = Create network requirements in an existing VPC that uses AWS Local Zones or Wavelength Zones

Reviewer 2: Amazon VPC?

If you want a Machine API to create an Amazon EC2 instance in a remote zone location, you must create a subnet in a {zone-type} location. You can use any provisioning tool, such as Ansible or Terraform, to create subnets in the existing Virtual Private Cloud (VPC).

You can configure the CloudFormation template to meet your requirements. The following subsections include steps that use CloudFormation templates to create the network requirements that extend an existing VPC to use an AWS {zone-type}.

> For Local Zones, on completing these steps in the following subsections, you create the following resources:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For Local Zones, after completing the steps in the following subsections, you create the following resources:
```

> Extending nodes to Local Zones requires that you create the following resources:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Extending nodes to Local Zones requires that you create the following resources:
```
If these are created resources with subsections, they should be bulleted and sub-bulleted.

> * 2 VPC Subnets: public and private. The public subnet associates to the public route table for the regular Availability Zones in the Region. The private subnet associates to the provided route table ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** 2 VPC Subnets: public and private. The public subnet associates to the public route table for the regular Availability Zones in the Region. The private subnet associates to the provided route table ID.
```

> Extending nodes to Wavelength Zones requires that you create the following resources:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Extending nodes to Wavelength Zones requires that you create the following resources:
```

> * 1 VPC Carrier Gateway associated to the provided VPC ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** 1 VPC Carrier Gateway associated to the provided VPC ID.
```

> * 1 VPC Route Table for Wavelength Zones with a default route entry to VPC Carrier Gateway. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** 1 VPC Route Table for Wavelength Zones with a default route entry to VPC Carrier Gateway. 
```

> * 2 VPC Subnets: public and private. The public subnet associates to the public route table for an AWS Wavelength Zone. The private subnet associates to the provided route table ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** 2 VPC Subnets: public and private. The public subnet associates to the public route table for an AWS Wavelength Zone. The private subnet associates to the provided route table ID.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Considering the limitation of NAT Gateways in Wavelength Zones, the provided CloudFormation templates support only associating the private subnets with the provided route table ID. A route table ID gets attached to a valid NAT Gateway in the Region.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Considering the limitation of NAT Gateways in Wavelength Zones, the provided CloudFormation templates support only associating the private subnets with the provided route table ID. A route table ID is attached to a valid NAT Gateway in the AWS Region.
```
